# Community

- Approver

A person who can review and approve Kubernetes code contributions. While code
review is focused on code quality and correctness, approval is focused on the
holistic acceptance of a contribution. Holistic acceptance includes
backwards/forwards compatibility, adhering to API and flag conventions, subtle
performance and correctness issues, interactions with other parts of the system,
and others. Approver status is scoped to a part of the codebase. Approvers were
previously referred to as maintainers.

- CLA (Contributor License Agreement)

Terms under which a contributor grants a license to an open source project for
their contributions. CLAs help resolve legal disputes involving contributed
material and intellectual property (IP).

- Cloud Provider

Cloud provider is a company that offers cloud computing platform that can run
Kubernetes clusters. Cloud providers or sometime called Cloud Service Provider
(CSPs) provides cloud computing platforms. They may offer services such as
Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) or Platform as a Service (PaaS). Cloud
providers host the Kubernetes cluster and also provide services that interact
with the cluster, such as Load Balancers, Storage Classes etc.

- Code Contributor

A person who develops and contributes code to the Kubernetes open source
codebase. They are also an active community member who participates in one or
more Special Interest Groups (SIGs) .

- Contributor

Someone who donates code, documentation, or their time to help the Kubernetes
project or community. Contributions include pull requests (PRs), issues,
feedback, special interest groups (SIG) participation, or organizing community
events.

- Developer (disambiguation)

May refer to: Application Developer, Code Contributor, or Platform Developer.
This overloaded term may have different meanings depending on the context

- Downstream (disambiguation)

May refer to: code in the Kubernetes ecosystem that depends upon the core
Kubernetes codebase or a forked repo.

  1. In the Kubernetes Community: Conversations often use downstream to mean the
     ecosystem, code, or third-party tools that rely on the core Kubernetes
     codebase. For example, a new feature in Kubernetes may be adopted by
     applications downstream to improve their functionality.

  2. In GitHub or git: The convention is to refer to a forked repo as
     downstream, whereas the source repo is considered upstream.

- Member

A continuously active contributor in the K8s community. Members can have issues
and PRs assigned to them and participate in special interest groups (SIGs)
through GitHub teams. Pre-submit tests are automatically run for membersâ€™ PRs. A
member is expected to remain an active contributor to the community.

- Reviewer

A person who reviews code for quality and correctness on some part of the
project. Reviewers are knowledgeable about both the codebase and software
engineering principles. Reviewer status is scoped to a part of the codebase.

- SIG (special interest group)

Community members who collectively manage an ongoing piece or aspect of the
larger Kubernetes open source project. Members within a SIG have a shared
interest in advancing a specific area, such as architecture, API machinery, or
documentation. SIGs must follow the SIG Governance guidelines but can have their
own contribution policy and channels of communication.

For more information, see the kubernetes/community repo and the current list of
SIGs and Working Groups.

- Upstream (disambiguation)

May refer to: core Kubernetes or the source repo from which a repo was forked.

  1. In the Kubernetes Community: Conversations often use upstream to mean the
     core Kubernetes codebase, which the general ecosystem, other code, or
     third-party tools relies upon. For example, community members may suggest
     that a feature is moved upstream so that it is in the core codebase instead
     of in a plugin or third-party tool.

  2. In GitHub or git: The convention is to refer to a source repo as upstream,
     whereas the forked repo is considered downstream.

- WG (working group)

Facilitates the discussion and/or implementation of a short-lived, narrow, or
decoupled project for a committee, SIG , or cross-SIG effort. Working groups are
a way of organizing people to accomplish a discrete task, and are relatively
easy to create and deprecate when inactive.

For more information, see the kubernetes/community repo and the current list of
SIGs and working groups.
