# Words and Expressions Commonly Misused

Many of the words and expressions listed here are not so much bad English as bad
style, the commonplaces of careless writing. As illustrated under Feature, the
proper correction is likely to be not the replacement of one word or set of
words by another but the replace of vague generality by definite statement.

The shape of our language is not rigid; in questions of usage we have no
lawgiver whose word is final. Students whose curiosity is aroused by the
interpretations that follow, or whose doubts are raised, will wish to pursue
their investigations further. Books useful in such pursuits are Merriam
Webster's Collegiate Dictionary, Tenth Edition; The American Heritage Dictionary
of the English Language, Third Edition; Webster's Third New International
Dictionary; The New Fowler's Modern English Usage, Third Edition, edited by R.
W. Burchfield; Modern American Usage: A Guide by Wilson Follett and Erik
Wensberg; and The Careful Writer by Theodore M. Bernstein.

## *Aggravate*. *Irritate*.
The first means "to add to" an already troublesome or vexing matter or
condition. The second means "to vex" or "to annoy" or "to chafe."

## *All right*.
Idiomatic in familiar speech as a detached phrase in the sense "Agreed," or "Go
ahead," or "O.K." Properly written as two words -- all right.

## *Allude*.
Do not confuse with elude. You allude to a book; you elude a pursuer. Note, too,
that allude is not synonymous with refer. An allusion is an indirect mention, a
reference is a specific one.

## *Allusion*.
Easily confused with illusion. The first means "an indirect reference"; the
second means "an unreal image" or "a false impression."

## *Alternate. Alternative*.
The words are not always interchangeable as nouns or adjectives. The first means
every other one in a series; the second, one of two possibilities. As the other
one of a series of two, an alternate may stand for "a substitute," but an
alternative, although used in a similar sense, connotes a matter of choice that
is never present with alternate.

As the flooded road left them no alternative, they took the alternate one.

## *Among. Between.*
When more than two things or persons are involved, among is usually called for:
"The money was divided among the four players." When, however, more than two are
involved but each is considered individually, between is preferred: "an
agreement between the six heirs."

## *And/or.*
A device, or shortcut, that damages a sentence and often leads to confusion or
ambiguity.

    First of all, would an honor system successfully cut down on the amount of stealing and/or cheanting?

    First of all, would an honor system reduce the incidence of stealing or cheanting or both?

## *Anticipate.*
Use expect in the sense of simple expectation.

    I anticipated that he would look older.

    I expected that he would book older.

    My brother anticipated the upturn in the market.

    My brother expected the upturn in the market.

In the second example, the word anticipated is ambiguous. It could mean simply
that the brother believed the upturn would occur, or it would mean that he acted
in advance of the expected upturn -- by buying stock, perhaps.

## *Anybody.*
In the sense of "any person," not to be written as two words. Any body means
"any corpse," or "any human form," or "any group." The rule holds equally for
everybody, nobody, and somebody.

## *Anyone.*
In the sense of "anybody," written as one word. Any one means "any single
person" or "any single thing."

## *As good or better than.*
Expressions of this type should be corrected by rearranging the sentences.

    My opinion is as good or better than this.

    My opinion is as good as his, or better (if not better).

## *As to whether.*
Whether is sufficient.

## *As yet.*
Yet nearly always is as good, if not better.

    No agreement has been reached as yet.

    No agreement has yet been reached.

    Yet (or despite everything) he has not succeeded.

    As yet (or so far) he has not succeeded.

## *Being.*
Not appropriate after regard ... as.

    He is regarded as being the best dancer in the club.

    He is regarded as the best dancer in the club.

## *But.*
Unnecessary after doubt and help.

    I have no doubt but that

    I have no doubt that

    He could not help but see that

    He could not help seeing that

The too-frequent use of that as a conjunction leads to the fault discussed under
Rule 18. A loose sentence formed with but can usually be converted into a
periodic sentence formed with although.

Particularly awkward is one but closely following another, thus making a
contrast to a contrast, or a reservation to a reservation. this is easily
corrected by rearrangement.

    Our country had vast resources but seemed almost wholly unprepared for war. But within a year it had created an army of four million.

    Our country seemed almost wholly unprepared for war, but it had vast resources. Within a year it had created an army of four million.

## *Can.*
Means "am (is, are) able." Not to be used as a substitute for may.

## *Care less.*
The dismissive "I couldn't care less" is often used with the shortened "not"
mistakenly (and mysteriously) omitted: "I could care less." The error destroys
the meaning of the sentence and is careless indeed.

## *Case.*
Often unnecessary.

    In many cases, the rooms lacked air conditioning.

    Many of the rooms lacked air conditioning.

    It has rarely been the case that any mistake has been made.

    Few mistakes have been made.

## *Certainly.*
Used indiscriminately by some speakers, much as others use very, in an attempt
to intensify any and every statement. A mannerism of this kind, bad in speech,
is even worse in writing.

## *Character.*
Often simply redundant, used from a mere habit of wordiness.

    acts of a hostile character

    hostile acts

## *Claim (verb).*
With object-noun, means "lay claim to." May be used with a dependent clause if
this sense is clearly intended: "She claimed that she was the sole heir." (But
even here claimed to be would be better.) Not to be used as a substitute for
declare, maintain, or charge.

    He claimed he knew how.

    He declared he knew how.

## *Clever.*
Note that the word means one thing when applied to people, another when applied
to horses. A clever horse is a good-natured one, not an ingenious one.

## *Compare.*
To compare to is to point out or imply resemblances between objects regarded as
essentially of a different order; to compare with is mainly to point out
differences between objects regarded as essentially of the same order. Thus,
life has been compared to a pilgrimage, to a drama, to a battle; Congress may be
compared with the British Parliament. Paris has been compared to ancient Athens;
it may be compared with modern London.

## *Comprise.*
Literally, "embrace": A zoo comprise mammals, reptiles, and birds (because it
"embraces", or "includes," them). But animals do not comprise ("embrace") a zoo
-- they constitute a zoo.

## *Consider.*
Not followed by as when it means "believe to be."

    I consider him as competent.

    I consider him competent.

When considered means "examined" or "discussed," it is followed by as:

    The lecturer  considered Eisenhower first as soldier and second as administrator.

## *Contact.*
As a transitive verb, the word is vague and self-important. Do not contact
people; get in touch with them, look them up, phone them, find them, or meet
them.
