# Elementary Rules of Usage

## 1. Form the possessive singular of nouns by adding 's.

Follow this rule whatever the final consonant. Thus write,

    Charles's friend
    Burn's poems
    the witch's malice

Exceptions are the possessives of ancient proper names ending in -es and -is,
the possessive Jesus', and such forms as for conscience' sake, for
righteousness' sake. But such forms as Moses' Laws, Isis' temple are commonly
replaced by

    the laws of Moses
    the temple of Isis

The pronominal possessives hers, its, theirs, yours, and ours have no
apostrophe. Indefinite pronouns, however, use the apostrophe to show possession.

    one's rights
    somebody else's umbrella

A common error is to write it's for its, or vice versa. The first is a
contraction, meaning "It is." The second is a possessive.

    It's a wise dog that scratches its own fleas.

## 2. In a series of three or more terms with a single conjunction, use a comma after each term except the last

Thus write,

    red, white, and blue gold, silver, or copper

    He opened the letter, read it, and made a note of its contents.

This comma is often referred to as the "serial" comma. In the names of business
firms the last comma is usually omitted. Follow the usage of the individual firm.

    Little, Brown and Company Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette

## 3. Enclose parenthetic expressions between commas

    The best way to see a country, unless you are pressed for time, is to travel
    on foot.

This rule is difficult to apply; it is frequently hard to decide whether a
single word, such as however, or a brief phrase is or is not parenthetic. If the
interruption to the flow of the sentence is but slight, the commas may be safely
omitted. But whether the interruption is slight or considerable, never omit one
comma and leave the other. There is no defense for such punctuation as:

    Marjories husband, Colonel Nelson paid us a visit yesterday.

    or

    My brother you will be pleased to hear, is now in perfect health.

Dates usually contain parenthetic words or figures. Punctuate as follows:

    February to July, 1992

    April 6, 1986

    Wednesday, November 14, 1990

Note that it is customary to omit the comma in

    6 April 1998

The last form is an excellent way to write a date; the figures are separated by
a word and are, for the reason, quickly grasped.

A name or a little in direct address is parenthetic.

    If, Sir, you refuse, I cannot predict what will happen.

    Well. Susan, this is a fine mess you are in.

The abbreviations etc., i.e., and e.g., the abbreviations for academic degrees,
and titles that follow a name are parenthetic and should be punctuated
accordingly.

    Letters, packages, etc., should go here.

    Horace Fulsome, Ph.D., presided.

    Rachel Simonds, Attorney

    The Reverend Harry Lang, S.J.

No comma, however, should separate a noun from a restrictive term of
identification.

    Billy the Kid

    The novelist Jane Austen

    William the Conqueror

    The poet Sappho

Although Junior, with is abbreviation Jr., has commonly been regarded as
parenthetic, logic suggests that it is, in fact, restrictive and terefore not in
need of a comma.

    James Wright Jr.

Nonrestrictive relative clauses are parenthetic, as are similar clauses
introduced by conjunctions indicating time or place. Commas are therefore
needed. A nonrestrictive clause is one that does not serve to identify or define
the antecedent noun.

    The audience, which had at first been iindifferent, became more and more
    interested.

    In 1769, when Napoleon was born, Corsica had but recently been acquired
    by France.

    Nether Stowey, where Coleridge wrote The Rime of the Ancient Mariner, is a
    few miles from Bridgewater.

In these sentenses, the clauses introduced by which, when, and where are
nonrestrictive; they do not limit or define, the merely add something. In the
first example, the cluase introduced by which does not serve to tell which of
serveral possible audiences is meant; the reader presumably knows that already.
The clause adds, parenthetically, a statement supplementing that in the main
clause. Each of the three sentences is a combination of two statements that
might have been made independently.

    The audience was at first indifferent. Later it became more and more
    interested.

    Napoleon was bown in 1769. At that time Corsica had but recently been
    acquired by France.

    Coleridge wrote The Rime of the Ancient Mariner at Nether Stowey. Nether
    Stowey is a few miles from Bridgewater.

Restrictive clauses, by contrast, are not parenthetic and are not set off by
commas. Thus,

    People who live in glass houses shouldn't throw stones.

Here the clause introduced by who does serve to tell which people are meant; the
sentence, unlike the sentenses above, cannot be split into two independent
statements. The same priciple of comma use applies to participial phrases and to
appositives.

    People sitting in the rear couldn't hear, (restrictive)

    Uncle Bert, being slightly deaf, moved forward, (non-restrictive)

    My cusin Bob is a talented harpist, (restrictive)

    Our oldest daughter, Mary, sings, (nonrestrictive)

When the main clause of a sentence is preceded by a phrase or a subordinate
clause, use a comma to set off these elements.

    Partly by hard fighting, partly by diplomatic skill, they enlarged their
    dominions to the east and rose to royal rank with the possession of Sicily.

## 4. Place a comma before a conjunction introducing an independent clause

The early records of the city have disappeared, and the story of its first years
can no longer be reconstructed.

The situation is perilous, but there is still one chance of escape.

Two-part sentences of which the second member is introduced by as (in the sense
of "because"), for, or, nor, or while (in the sense of "and at the same time")
likewise require a comma before the conjunction.

If a dependent clause, or an introductory phrase requiring to be set off by
comma, precedes the second independent clause, no comma is needed after the
conjunction.

The situation is perilous, but if we are prepared to act promptly, there is
still one chance of escape.

When the subject is the same for both clauses and is expressed only once, a
comma is useful if the connective is but. When the connective is and, the comma
should be omitted if the relation between the two statements is close or
immediate.

    I have heard the aguments, but am still unconvinced.

    He has had several years' expreience and is thoroughly competent.

## 5. Do not join independent clauses with a comma

If two or more clauses grammatically complete and not joined by a conjunction
are to form a single compound sentence, the proper mark of punctuation is a
semicolon.

    Mary Shelley's works are entertaining; they are full of engaging ideas.

    It is nearly half past five; we cannot reach town before dark.

It is, of course, equally correct to write each of these as two sentences,
replacing the semicolon with periods.

    Mary Shelley's works are entertaining. they are full of engaging ideas.

    It is nearly half past five. we cannot reach town before dark.

If a conjunction is inserted, the proper mark is a comma. (Rule 4)

    Mary Shelley's works are entertaining, for they are full of engaging ideas.

    It is nearly half past five, and we cannot reach town before dark.

A comparison of the three forms given above will show clearly the advantage of
the first. It is, at least in the examples given, better than the second form
because it suggests the close relationship between the two statements in a way
that the second does not attempt, and better than the third because it is
briefer and therefore more forcible. Indeed, this simple method of indicating
relationship between statements is one of the most useful devices of compsition.
The relationship, as above, is commonly one of cause and consequence.

Note that if the second clause is preceded by an adverb, such as accordingly,
besides, then, therefore, or thus, and not by a conjunction, the semicolon is
still required.

    I had never been in the place before; besides, it was dark as a tomb.

An exception to the semicolon rule is worth nothing here. A comma is preferable
when the clauses are very short and alike in form, or when tone of the sentence
is easy and conversational.

    Man proposes, God disposes.

    The gates swung apart, the bridge fell, the portcullis was drawn up.

    I hardly knew him, he was so changed.

    Here today, gone tomorrow.

## Do not break sentences in two

In other words, do not use periods for commas.

    I met them on a Cunard liner many years ago. Coming home from Liverpool
    to New York

    She was an interesting talker. A woman who had traveled all over the world
    and lived in half a dozen countries.

In both these examples, the first period should be replaced by a comma and the
following word begun with a small letter.

It is permissible to make an emphatic word or expression serve the purpose of a
sentence and to punctuate it accordingly:

    Again and again he called out. No reply.

The writer must, however, be certain that the emphasis is warranted, lest a
clipped sentence seem merely a blunder in syntax or in punctuation. Generally
speaking, the place for broken sentences is in dialogue, when a character
happens to speak in a clipped for fragmentary way.

Rules 3, 4, 5, and 6 cover the most important principles that govern
punctuation. They should be thoroughly mastered that their application becomes
second nature.

## Use a colon after an independent clause to introduce a list of particulars, an appositive, an amplification, or an illustrative quotation

A colon tells the reader that what follows is closely related to the preceding
clause. The colon has more effect than the comma, less power to separate than
the semicolon, and more formality than the dash. It usually follows an
independent clause and should not separate a verb from its complement or a
preposition from its object. The examples in the lefthand column, below, are
wrong; they should be rewritten as in the righthand column.

    Your dedicated whittler requires: a knife, a piece of wood, and a back porch.

    Your dedicated whittler requires three props: a knife, a piece of wood, and a
    back porch.

    Understanding is that penetrating quality of knowledge that grows from:
    theory, practice, conviction, assertion, error, and humiliation.

    Understanding is that penetrating quality of knowledge that grows from
    theory, practice, conviction, assertion, error, and humiliation.

Join two independent clauses with a colon if the second interprets or amplifies
the first.

    But even so, there was a directness and dispatch about animal burial: there
    was no stopover in the undertaker's foul parlor, no wreath or spray.

A colon may introduce a quotation that supports or contributes to the preceding
clause.

    The squalor of the streets reminded her of a line from Oscar Wilde: "We are
    all in the gutter, but some of us are looking at the stars."

The colon also has certain functions of form: to follow the salutation of a
formal letter, to separate hour from minute in a notation of time, and to
separate the title of a work from its subtitle or a Bible chapter from a verse.

    Dear Mr. Montague:

    departs at 10:48 P.M.

    Practical Calligraphy: An Introduction to Italic Script

    Nehemiah 11:7
