# Elementary Principles of Composition

## 12. Choose a suitable design and hold to it

A basic structural design underlies every kind of writing. Writers will in part
follow this design, in part deviate from it, according to their skills, their
needs, and the unexpected events that accompany the act of composition. Writing,
to be effective, must follow closely the thoughts of the writer, but not
necessarily in the order in which those thoughts occur.

This calls for a scheme of procedure. In some cases, the best design is no
design, as with a love letter, which is simply an outpouring, or with a casual
essay, which is a ramble. But in most cases, planning must be a deliberate
prelude to writing. The first principle of composition, therefore, is to foresee
or determine the shape of what is to come and pursue that shape.

A sonnet is built on a fourteen-line frame, each line containing five feet.
Hence, sonneteers know exactly where they are headed, although they may not know
how to get there. Most forms of composition are less clearly defined, more
flexible, but all have skeletons to which the writer bring the flesh and the
blood. The more clearly the writer perceives the shape, the better are the
chances of success.

## 13. Make the paragraph the unit of composition

The paragraph is a convenient unit; it serves all forms of literary work. As
long as it holds together, a paragraph may be of any length — a single, short
sentence or a passage of great duration.

If the subject on which you are writing is of slight extent, or if you intend to
treat it briefly, there may be no need to divide it into topics. Thus, a brief
description, a brief book review, a brief account of a single incident, a
narrative merely outlining an action, the setting forth of a single idea — any
one of these is best written in a single paragraph. After the paragraph has been
written, examine it to see whether division will improve it.

Ordinarily, however, a subject requires division into topics, each of which
should be dealt with in a paragraph. The object of treating each topic in a
paragraph by itself is, of course, to aid the reader. The beginning of each
paragraph is a signal that a new step in the development of the subject has been
reached.

As a rule, single sentences should not be written or printed as paragraphs. An
exception may be made of sentences of transition, indicating the relation
between the parts of an exposition or argument

In dialogue, each speech, even if only a single word, is usually a paragraph by
itself; that is, a new paragraph begins with each change of speaker. The
application of this rule when dialogue and narrative are combined is best
learned from examples in well-edited works of fiction. Sometimes a writer,
seeking to create an effect of rapid talk or for some other reason, will elect
not to set off each speech in a separate paragraph and instead will run speeches
together. The common practice, however, and the one that serves best in most
instances, is to give each speech a paragraph of its own.

As a rule, begin each paragraph either with a sentence that suggests the topic
or with a sentence that helps the transition. If a paragraph forms part of a
larger composition, its relation to what precedes, or its function as a part of
the whole, may need to be expressed. This can sometimes be done by a mere word
or phrase (again, therefore, for the same reason) in the first sentence.
Sometimes, however, it is expedient to get into the topic slowly, by way of a
sentence or two of introduction or transition.

In narration and description, the paragraph sometimes begins with a concise,
comprehensive statement serving to hold together the details that follow.

    The breeze served us admirably.

    The campaign opened with a series of reverses.

    The next ten or twelve pages were filled with a curious set of entries.

But when this device, or any device, is too often used, it becomes a mannerism.
More commonly, the opening sentence simply indicates by its subject the
direction the paragraph is to take.

    At length I thought I might return toward the stockade.

    He picked up the heavy lamp from the table and began to explore.

    Another flight of steps, and they emerged on the roof.

In animated narrative, the paragraphs are likely to be short and without any
semblance of a topic sentence, the writer rushing headlong, event following
event in rapid succession. The break between such paragraphs merely serves the
purpose of a rhetorical pause, throwing into prominence some detail of the
action.

In general, remember that paragraphing calls for a good eye as well as a logical
mind. Enormous blocks of print look formidable to readers, who are often
reluctant to tackle them. Therefore, breaking long paragraphs in two, even if it
is not necessary to do so for sense, meaning, or logical development, is often a
visual help. But remember, too, that firing off many short paragraphs in quick
succession can be distracting. Paragraph breaks used only for show read like the
writing of commerce or of display advertising. Moderation and a sense of order
should be the main considerations in paragraphing.

## 14. Use the active voice

The active voice is usually more direct and vigorous than the passive:

    I shall always remember my first visit to Boston.

This is much better than

    My first visit to Boston will always be remembered by me.

The latter sentence is less direct, less bold, and less concise. If the writer
tries to make it more concise by omitting "by me,"

    My first visit to Boston will always be remembered,

it becomes indefinite: is it the writer or some undisclosed person or the world
at large that will always remember this visit?

This rule does not, of course, mean that the writer should entirely discard the
passive voice, which is frequently convenient and sometimes necessary.

    The dramatists of the Restoration are little esteemed today.

    Modern readers have little esteem for the dramatists of the Restoration.

The first would be the preferred form in a paragraph on the dramatists of the
Restoration, the second in a paragraph on the tastes of modern readers. The need
to make a particular word the subject of the sentence will often, as in these
examples, determine which voice is to be used.

The habitual use of the active voice, however, makes for forcible writing. This
is true not only in narrative concerned principally with action but in writing
of any kind. Many a tame sentence of description or exposition can be made
lively and emphatic by substituting a transitive in the active voice for some
such perfunctory expression as there is or could be heard.

    There were a great number of dead leaves lying on the ground.

    Dead leaves covered the ground.

    At dawn the crowing of a rooster could be heard.

    The cock's crow came with dawn.

    The reason he left college was that his health became impaired.

    Failing health compelled him to leave college.

    It was not long before she was very sorry that she had said what she had.

    She soon repented her words.

Note, in the examples above, that when a sentence is made stronger, it usually
becomes shorter. Thus, brevity is a by-product of vigor.

## 15. Put statements in positive form

Make definite assertions. Avoid tame, colorless, hesitating, noncommittal
language. Use the word not as a means of denial or in antithesis, never as a
means of evasion.

    He was not very often on time.

    He usually came late.

    She did not think that studying Latin was a sensible way to use one's time.

    She thought the study of Latin a waste of time.

    The Taming of the Shrew is rather weak in spots. Shakespeare does not
    portray Katharine as a very admirable character, nor does Bianca remain
    long in memory as an important character in Shakespeare's works.

    The women in The Taming of the Shrew are unattractive. Katharine is
    disagreeable, Bianca insignificant.

The last example, before correction, is indefinite as well as negative. The
corrected version, consequently, is simply a guess at the writer's intention.

All three examples show the weakness inherent in the word not. Consciously or
unconsciously, the reader is dissatisfied with being told only what is not; the
reader wishes to be told what is. Hence, as a rule, it is better to express even
a negative in positive form.

    not honest                              dishonest
    not important                           trifling
    did not remember                        forgot
    did not pay any attention to            ignored
    did not have much confidence in         distrusted

Placing negative and positive in opposition makes for a stronger structure.

    Not charity, but simple justice.

    Not that I loved Caesar less, but that I loved Rome more.

    Ask not what your country can do for you — ask what you can do for your
    country.

Negative words other than not are usually strong.

    Her loveliness I never knew / Until she smiled on me.

Statements qualified with unnecessary auxiliaries or conditionals sound
irresolute.

    If you would let us know the time of your arrival, we would be happy to
    arrange your transportation from the airport.

    If you will let us know the time of your arrival, we shall be happy to
    arrange your transportation from the airport.

    Applicants can make a good impression by being neat and punctual.

    Applicants will make a good impression if they are neat and punctual.

    Plath may be ranked among those modem poets who died young.

    Plath was one of those modern poets who died young.

If your every sentence admits a doubt, your writing will lack authority. Save
the auxiliaries would, should, could, may, might, and can for situations
involving real uncertainty.

## 16. Use definite, specific, concrete language

Prefer the specific to the general, the definite to the vague, the concrete to
the abstract.

    A period of unfavorable weather set in.

    It rained every day for a week.

    He showed satisfaction as he took possession of his well-earned reward.

    He grinned as he pocketed the coin.

If those who have studied the art of writing are in accord on any one point, it
is this: the surest way to arouse and hold the readers attention is by being
specific, definite, and concrete. The greatest writers — Homer, Dante,
Shakespeare — are effective largely because they deal in particulars and report
the details that matter. Their words call up pictures.

Jean Stafford, to cite a more modern author, demonstrates in her short story "In
the Zoo" how prose is made vivid by the use of words that evoke images and
sensations:

```
... Daisy and I in time found asylum in a small menagerie down by the railroad
tracks. It belonged to a gentle alcoholic ne'er-do-well, who did nothing all
day long but drink bathtub gin in rickeys and play solitaire and smile to
himself and talk to his animals. He had a little, stunted red vixen and a
deodorized skunk, a parrot from Tahiti that spoke Parisian French, a woebegone
coyote, and two capuchin monkeys, so serious and humanized, so small and sad and
sweet, and so religious-looking with their tonsured heads that it was impossible
not to think their gibberish was really an ordered language with a grammar that
someday some philologist would understand.

Gran knew about our visits to Mr. Murphy and she did not object, for it gave her
keen pleasure to excoriate him when we came home. His vice was not a matter of
guesswork; it was an established fact that he was half-seas over from dawn till
midnight. "With the black Irish," said Gran, "the taste for drink is taken in
with the mother's milk and is never mastered. Oh, I know all about those
promises to join the temperance movement and not to touch another drop. The way
to Hell is paved with good intentions."*
```

(* Excerpt from "In the Zoo" from Bad Characters by Jean Stafford. Copyright ©
1964 by Jean Stafford. Copyright renewed © 1992 by Nora Cosgrove. Reprinted by
permission of Farrar, Straus & Giroux, Inc. Also copyright © 1969 by Jean
Stafford; reprinted by permission of Curtis Brown, Ltd.)

If the experiences of Walter Mitty, of Molly Bloom, of Rabbit Angstrom have
seemed for the moment real to countless readers, if in reading Faulkner we have
almost the sense of inhabiting Yoknapatawpha County during the decline of the
South, it is because the details used are definite, the terms concrete. It is
not that every detail is given — that would be impossible, as well as to no
purpose — but that all the significant details are given, and with such accuracy
and vigor that readers, in imagination, can project themselves into the scene.

In exposition and in argument, the writer must likewise never lose hold of the
concrete; and even when dealing with general principles, the writer must furnish
particular instances of their application.

In his Philosophy of Style, Herbert Spencer gives two sentences to illustrate
how the vague and general can be turned into the vivid and particular:

    In proportion as the manners, customs, and amusements of a nation are cruel
    and barbarous, the regulations of its penal code will be severe.

    In proportion as men delight in battles, bullfights, and combats of
    gladiators, will they punish by hanging, burning, and the rack.

To show what happens when strong writing is deprived of its vigor, George Orwell
once took a passage from the Bible and drained it of its blood. On the left,
below, is Orwell's translation; on the right, the verse from Ecclesiastes (King
James Version).

    Objective consideration of contemporary phenomena compels the conclusion
    that success or failure in competitive activities exhibits no tendency to
    be commensurate with innate capacity, but that a considerable element of
    the unpredictable must inevitably be taken into account.

    I returned, and saw under the sun, that the race is not to the swift, nor
    the battle to the strong, neither yet bread to the wise, nor yet riches to
    men of understanding, nor yet favor to men of skill; but time and chance
    happeneth to them all.

## 17. Omit needless words

Vigorous writing is concise. A sentence should contain no unnecessary words, a
paragraph no unnecessary sentences, for the same reason that a drawing should
have no unnecessary lines and a machine no unnecessary parts. This requires not
that the writer make all sentences short, or avoid all detail and treat subjects
only in outline, but that every word tell.

Many expressions in common use violate this principle.

    the question as to whether            whether (the question whether)
    there is no doubt but that            no doubt (doubtless)
    used for fuel purposes                used for fuel
    he is a man who                       he
    in a hasty manner                     hastily
    this is a subject that                this subject
    Her story is a strange one.           Her story is strange.
    the reason why is that                because

The fact that is an especially debilitating expression. It should be revised out
of every sentence in which it occurs.

    owing to the fact that                     since (because)
    in spite of the fact that                  though (although)
    call your attention to the fact that       remind you (notify you)
    I was unaware of the fact that             I was unaware that (did not know)
    the fact that he had not succeeded         his failure
    the fact that I had arrived                my arrival

See also the words case, character, nature in Chapter IV. Who is, which was, and
the like are often superfluous.

    His cousin, who is a member of the same firm

    His cousin, a member of the same firm

    Trafalgar, which was Nelson's last battle

    Trafalgar, Nelson's last battle

As the active voice is more concise than the passive, and a positive statement
more concise than a negative one, many of the examples given under Rules 14 and
15 illustrate this rule as well.

A common way to fall into wordiness is to present a single complex idea, step by
step, in a series of sentences that might to advantage be combined into one.

```
Macbeth was very ambitious. This led him to wish to become king of Scotland. The
witches told him that this wish of his would come true. The king of Scotland at
this time was Duncan. Encouraged by his wife, Macbeth murdered Duncan. He was
thus enabled to succeed Duncan as king. (51 words)
```

```
Encouraged by his wife, Macbeth achieved his ambition and realized the
prediction of the witches by murdering Duncan and becoming king of Scotland in
his place. (26 words)
```

## 18. Avoid a succession of loose sentences

This rule refers especially to loose sentences of a particular type: those
consisting of two clauses, the second introduced by a conjunction or relative. A
writer may err by making sentences too compact and periodic. An occasional loose
sentence prevents the style from becoming too formal and gives the reader a
certain relief. Consequently, loose sentences are common in easy, unstudied
writing. The danger is that there may be too many of them.

An unskilled writer will sometimes construct a whole paragraph of sentences of
this kind, using as connectives and, but, and, less frequently, who, which,
when, where, and while, these last in nonrestrictive senses. (See Rule 3.)

```
The third concert of the subscription series was given last evening, and a large
audience was in attendance. Mr. Edward Appleton was the soloist, and the Boston
Symphony Orchestra furnished the instrumental music. The former showed himself
to be an artist of the first rank, while the latter proved itself fully
deserving of its high reputation. The interest aroused by the series has been
very gratifying to the Committee, and it is planned to give a similar series
annually hereafter. The fourth concert will be given on Tuesday, May 10, when an
equally attractive program will be presented.
```

Apart from its triteness and emptiness, the paragraph above is bad because of
the structure of its sentences, with their mechanical symmetry and singsong.
Compare these sentences from the chapter "What I Believe" in E. M. Forster's Two
Cheers for Democracy:

```
I believe in aristocracy, though — if that is the right word, and if a democrat
may use it. Not an aristocracy of power, based upon rank and influence, but an
aristocracy of the sensitive, the considerate and the plucky. Its members are to
be found in all nations and classes, and all through the ages, and there is a
secret understanding between them when they meet. They represent the true human
tradition, the one permanent victory of our queer race over cruelty and chaos.
Thousands of them perish in obscurity, a few are great names. They are sensitive
for others as well as for themselves, they are considerate without being fussy,
their pluck is not swankiness but the power to endure, and they can take a
joke.*
```

(* Excerpt from "What I Believe" in Two Cheers for Democracy, copyright 1939 and
renewed 1967 by E. M. Forster, reprinted by permission of Harcourt, Inc. Also,
by permission of The Provost and Scholars of King's College, Cambridge, and The
Society of Authors as the literary representatives of the E. M. Forster Estate.)

A writer who has written a series of loose sentences should recast enough of
them to remove the monotony, replacing them with simple sentences, sentences of
two clauses joined by a semicolon, periodic sentences of two clauses, or
sentences (loose or periodic) of three clauses — whichever best represent the
real relations of the thought.

## 19. Express coordinate ideas in similar form

This principle, that of parallel construction, requires that expressions similar
in content and function be outwardly similar. The likeness of form enables the
reader to recognize more readily the likeness of content and function. The
familiar Beatitudes exemplify the virtue of parallel construction.

    Blessed are the poor in spirit: for theirs is the kingdom of heaven.

    Blessed are they that mourn: for they shall be comforted.

    Blessed are the meek: for they shall inherit the earth.

    Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness: for
    they shall be filled.

The unskilled writer often violates this principle, mistakenly believing in the
value of constantly varying the form of expression. When repeating a statement
to emphasize it, the writer may need to vary its form. Otherwise, the writer
should follow the principle of parallel construction.

    Formerly, science was taught by the textbook method, while now the
    laboratory method is employed.

    Formerly, science was taught by the textbook method; now it is taught
    by the laboratory method.

The lefthand version gives the impression that the writer is undecided or timid,
apparently unable or afraid to choose one form of expression and hold to it. The
righthand version shows that the writer has at least made a choice and abided by
it.

By this principle, an article or a preposition applying to all the members of a
series must either be used only before the first term or else be repeated before
each term.

    the French, the Italians, Spanish, and Portuguese

    the French, the Italians, the Spanish, and the Portuguese

    in spring, summer, or in winter

    in spring, summer, or winter (in spring, in summer, or in winter)

Some words require a particular preposition in certain idiomatic uses. When such
words are joined in a compound construction, all the appropriate prepositions
must be included, unless they are the same.

    His speech was marked by disagreement and scorn for his opponent's position.

    His speech was marked by disagreement with and scorn for his opponent's
    position.

Correlative expressions (both, and; not, but; not only, but also; either, or;
first, second, third; and the like) should be followed by the same grammatical
construction. Many violations of this rule can be corrected by rearranging the
sentence.

    It was both a long ceremony and very tedious.

    The ceremony was both long and tedious.

    A time not for words but action.

    A time not for words but for action.

    Either you must grant his request or incur his ill will.

    You must either grant his request or incur his ill will.

    My objections are, first, the injustice of the measure; second, that it is
    unconstitutional.

    My objections are, first, that the measure is unjust; second, that it is
    unconstitutional.

It may be asked, what if you need to express a rather large number of similar
ideas — say, twenty? Must you write twenty consecutive sentences of the same
pattern? On closer examination, you will probably find that the difficulty is
imaginary — that these twenty ideas can be classified in groups, and that you
need apply the principle only within each group. Otherwise, it is best to avoid
the difficulty by putting statements in the form of a table.

## 20. Keep related words together

The position of the words in a sentence is the principal means of showing their
relationship. Confusion and ambiguity result when words are badly placed. The
writer must, therefore, bring together the words and groups of words that are
related in thought and keep apart those that are not so related.

    He noticed a large stain in the rug that was right in the center.

    He noticed a large stain right in the center of the rug.

    You can call your mother in London and tell her all about George's taking
    you out to dinner for just two dollars.

    For just two dollars you can call your mother in London and tell her all
    about George's taking you out to dinner.

    New York's first commercial human-sperm bank opened Friday with semen samples
    from eighteen men frozen in a stainless steel tank.

    New York's first commercial human- sperm bank opened Friday when semen
    samples were taken from eighteen men. The samples were then frozen and
    stored in a stainless steel tank.

In the lefthand version of the first example, the reader has no way of knowing
whether the stain was in the center of the rug or the rug was in the center of
the room. In the lefthand version of the second example, the reader may well
wonder which cost two dollars — the phone call or the dinner. In the lefthand
version of the third example, the reader's heart goes out to those eighteen poor
fellows frozen in a steel tank.

The subject of a sentence and the principal verb should not, as a rule, be
separated by a phrase or clause that can be transferred to the beginning.

    Toni Morrison, in Beloved, writes about characters who have escaped from
    slavery but are haunted by its heritage.

    In Beloved, Toni Morrison writes about characters who have escaped from
    slavery but are haunted by its heritage.

    A dog, if you fail to discipline him, becomes a household pest.

    Unless disciplined, a dog becomes a household pest.

Interposing a phrase or a clause, as in the lefthand examples above, interrupts
the flow of the main clause. This interruption, however, is not usually
bothersome when the flow is checked only by a relative clause or by an
expression in apposition. Sometimes, in periodic sentences, the interruption is
a deliberate device for creating suspense. (See examples under Rule 22.)

The relative pronoun should come, in most instances, immediately after its
antecedent.

    There was a stir in the audience that suggested disapproval.

    A stir that suggested disapproval swept the audience.

    He wrote three articles about his adventures in Spain, which were published
    in Harper's Magazine.

    He published three articles in Harper's Magazine about his adventures in
    Spain.

    This is a portrait of Benjamin Harrison, who became President in 1889. He
    was the grandson of William Henry Harrison.

    This is a portrait of Benjamin Harrison, grandson of William Henry
    Harrison, who became President in 1889.

If the antecedent consists of a group of words, the relative comes at the end of
the group, unless this would cause ambiguity.

    The Superintendent of the Chicago Division, who

No ambiguity results from the above. But

    A proposal to amend the Sherman Act, which has been variously judged

leaves the reader wondering whether it is the proposal or the Act that has been
variously judged. The relative clause must be moved forward, to read, "A
proposal, which has been variously judged, to amend the Sherman Act...."
Similarly

    The grandson of William Henry Harrison, who

    William Henry Harrison's grandson, Benjamin Harrison, who

A noun in apposition may come between antecedent and relative, because in such a
combination no real ambiguity can arise.

    The Duke of York, his brother, who was regarded with hostility by the Whigs

Modifiers should come, if possible, next to the words they modify. If several
expressions modify the same word, they should be arranged so that no wrong
relation is suggested.

    All the members were not present.

    Not all the members were present.

    She only found two mistakes.

    She found only two mistakes.

    The director said he hoped all members would give generously to the Fund at
    a meeting of the committee yesterday.

    At a meeting of the committee yesterday, the director said he hoped all
    members would give generously to the Fund.

    Major R. E. Joyce will give a lecture on Tuesday evening in Bailey Hall, to
    which the public is invited on "My Experiences in Mesopotamia" at 8:00 P.M.

    On Tuesday evening at eight, Major R. E. Joyce will give a lecture in Bailey
    Hall on "My Experiences in Mesopotamia." The public is invited.

Note, in the last lefthand example, how swiftly meaning departs when words are
wrongly juxtaposed.

## 21. In summaries, keep to one tense

In summarizing the action of a drama, use the present tense. In summarizing a
poem, story, or novel, also use the present, though you may use the past if it
seems more natural to do so. If the summary is in the present tense, antecedent
action should be expressed by the perfect; if in the past, by the past perfect.

```
Chance prevents Friar John from delivering Friar Lawrence's letter to Romeo.
Meanwhile, owing to her father's arbitrary change of the day set for her
wedding, Juliet has been compelled to drink the potion on Tuesday night, with
the result that Balthasar informs Romeo of her supposed death before Friar
Lawrence learns of the nondelivery of the letter.
```

But whichever tense is used in the summary, a past tense in indirect discourse
or in indirect question remains unchanged.

    The Friar confesses that it was he who married them.

Apart from the exceptions noted, the writer should use the same tense
throughout. Shifting from one tense to another gives the appearance of
uncertainty and irresolution. In presenting the statements or the thought of
someone else, as in summarizing an essay or reporting a speech, do not overwork
such expressions as "he said," "she stated," "the speaker added," "the speaker
then went on to say," "the author also thinks." Indicate clearly at the outset,
once for all, that what follows is summary, and then waste no words in repeating
the notification.

In notebooks, in newspapers, in handbooks of literature, summaries of one kind
or another may be indispensable, and for children in primary schools retelling a
story in their own words is a useful exercise. But in the criticism or
interpretation of literature, be careful to avoid dropping into summary. It may
be necessary to devote one or two sentences to indicating the subject, or the
opening situation, of the work being discussed, or to cite numerous details to
illustrate its qualities. But you should aim at writing an orderly discussion
supported by evidence, not a summary with occasional comment. Similarly, if the
scope of the discussion includes a number of works, as a rule it is better not
to take them up singly in chronological order but to aim from the beginning at
establishing general conclusions.
